# NASA-SPACE-APPS-2020
Countless phenomena such as floods, fires, and algae blooms routinely impact ecosystems, economies, and human safety. Your challenge is to use satellite data to create a machine learning model that detects a specific phenomenon and build an interface that not only displays the detected phenomenon, but also layers it alongside ancillary data to help researchers and decision-makers better understand its impacts and scope.

# NEED (Natural Events Exposure & Detection.) 

## Summary

Through a website, the user can access NASA and ESA platforms, which contain satellite data. There they will select the place in the world to be analyzed and the corresponding satellite. We work on Tsunamis in this case, but the webpage will have a menu for the user to select among various natural disasters. It also has a button where they can access news about the phenomenon, an option to communicate with organizations devoted to mitigating the impact, a forum where researchers can exchange data, information resources and a simulator where you can see the evolution of a phenomenon under certain conditions.
How We Addressed This Challenge
We develop an interface method that, with the use of available satellite information, through mapping and data recognition, can analyze it and provide an automated diagnosis about of natural phenomenon, in order to provide relevant information to researchers and organizations.

With the data obtained by different tools and satellites it is possible for us to develop a machine learning model that allows us to evaluate and predict phenomena. This is a very useful tool for researchers and political actors to have the necessary information and in advance of the event in order to take preventive action and to have the opportunity to save as many lives as possible.

We will base ourselves on the detection and use of data to warn about the possible origin of tsunamis and other phenomena.

This model includes the use of a double-entry cross-matrix which will be responsible for assessing the input of data on the one hand and on the other the impact analysis generated by previous events and of similar magnitude in order to give a frame of reference to our artificial intelligence and thus it can be possible to estimate the magnitude of the event and possible consequences if this were the natural course of phenomenon and thereby enable the relevant actor to take preventive action and alert the population to considerable time in advance.

The idea is to integrate satellite data mainly from NASA into our application by means of an automatic learning method which will process the data and yield statistical results and modelling using dynamic graphics and simulator.

[Report link in English]


